So everyone wants to clear their ADAPT exam in their first attempt and this is my secret document that is going to help you in clearing it. So this is used by airlines to assess and select the candidate for their company and this is my Symbiotics ADAPT exam official result and when you'll be sitting for your interview, your interviewer is going to have a copy of your ADAPT exam results and might ask you question related to the performance you had in your ADAPT. Hello everyone, I am Lakshay Thakur. I am in Indigo Cadet Pilot Program with Chimes Aviation and I'll be telling you about everything that you need to know about ADAPT exam that how to prepare for it, how much does it cost, what are the things you need to cover, what are the things you don't need to cover and how long it will take you to clear your ADAPT exam. So ADAPT is basically a computer-based exam. You'll be giving it in a group of 15 people as selected by the Chimes Aviation after you are through their selection process. So now let's start with the Symbiotic document and this is the ADAPT exam result of mine conducted by Symbiotic and you could see that this is my application number and again, these all are the things that I'll be going one by one and this is going to take most of the time because this is the most important and the biggest out of all the other things that I mentioned here. So you could see that this is my name and my application ID. So this document is going to tell you about my personality questionnaire, abnormal traits, culture, safety culture maths, physics, cognitive reasoning, English, fast, flight test, performance learning, coordination. So let's start with the personality questionnaire. So you would all have already seen that there are various markings like green, blue, orange, uh amber, uh correction yellow, amber, and red. So, you could see that these are there to assess your performance. How excellent, good, reasonable, need attention, support, and need to learn. So, you might also get the low and the high. So, green is for the best and red is that you have to be very careful of it. So, after you're through with your selection process, [music] so you'll be divided in various group among your batch and uh there would be a group of 15 people and each person would be given a system. So, as soon as you start your exam, you'll be getting the personal questionnaire uh questions first and you will be getting around 100 to 150 questions [music] that would be totally random. So, these question could ask you that are you a team player? So, they'll be like you know, yes, maybe, or maybe like if there is a promotion happening in your company, would you like to give it to your uh companion or would you take it yourself? Or you would not give it to anyone. So, these all question would be like you don't have to act very smart or you have to think too much on it and you don't have to [music] lie. You have to just simply select any MCQ that you feel like is correct. It has to be a little thought given to it and whatever your intuition says. So, for my personality questionnaire, I had no concerns and there are few correction like minor problems with my self-directed profile. So, it tells that I'm unstructured, creative, ambitious individual who can be powerful in influencing through discussions. So, these are my overall result and few of the key attributes that I'll be going one by one as we move further. So, examiner to see that how well you fit into the aviation industry. So, there is going to be role, personal style, character, environment, and let's move into it. So, for my role, the examiner want to see that how good I am in authority gradient. When I'll be in cockpit, how much maturity I have. Will I be able to adapt to the changes and the challenges? So, for me it was pretty good in coping. I have a strong sense of duty and good gradient for retaining and prepared to listen advices, but [music] I also have some minor issues. So, in my pressure management, that there could be a slack of self-belief in complex or pressurized situations. Outgoing, assertive in my leadership, but need to have more examples to lead, and also safety attribute. So, pretty well, this is a moderate performance. So, I don't have any issue with it. &gt;&gt; [snorts] &gt;&gt; And when the examiner is sitting in front of you in the interview, he's going to have a soft or a hard copy of it, and he might ask you questions. So, I performed very well in all these three. So, there would be questions related to it. So, for my authority gradient, for example, he might ask me, "Tell me about a time when you have challenged an instruction given by a colleague or instructor." And I have to give my examiner few examples, the challenges I faced. So, I'm going to make a separate video for the interview, which is going to in-depth cover all the questions that could be asked from you or the questions that were asked from me. So, moving on further, you could see that there is a proposed interview question. So, from each topic they could ask me. And if I I done pretty well in it, so this will suggest that I have no issue and this topic needs no further exploration. And if you could see in my personal style, the examiner would see again, am I good team worker? What is my profile? How is my energy? And you could see the yellow color code is used, it means that it needs some special attention. So, may not always see the wider perspective, letting personal ambition and impatience impact. [music] So, for the good performance, there are question, so are there questions for the bad performance. So, for my attitude, there might be questions like Here it is not. Maybe when the red color coding comes, then you might see here. But wherever I were But wherever I have performed good, so at those places only questions are given. So, for my energy, the examiner would ask me and ask me to explain it with the example or a real life experience. Again, for my character, everything is green. [clears throat] You would see how stable I am for the aviation, the confidence and the other traits which need minor attention, like my adherence. Pays attention to the detail standard, motivated, but lacks courage of their convictions at time. &gt;&gt; And again, there would be questions that the examiner might ask. Again, for the work environment, there are commands style work styles which are performed well and then there are Company might need development, need structure and then there are attention to be given to such topics. So, the examiner might ask me from the good ones or the bad ones. So, this is the example of the question that my examiner could have asked me. So, again, the same. So, Selbsteinschätzung. &gt;&gt; So, the Selbsteinschätzung is basically a wider picture of what kind of personality you have. So, basically it is like either you are a technical or a intuitive person. So, do you tend to rely more on experimentation or just going to the technical details when you learn a new thing? Or maybe what kind of manner of interactions you have, either your physical skills are good or your problem-solving is good from your cognitive skills. Are you internal person? Do you blame yourself or the external one? So, there are nothing like right and wrong. They want to see like what kind of personality you tend to lean more on, either the external or the internal. So, there is nothing like the right or wrong in it. And then there is a summary which your examiner might read and would ask you questions based upon it. So, for me it was told that thrilling and exciting activities I like to take upon, but at the same time lack of structure and negative lopsidedness. It totally depends upon the examiner what kind of questions he want to lean into it. So, again, the summary. And then there is a locus of control. Did pretty good good in it. And referencing I did pretty bad in it. So, it told me that more aware of appropriate social interaction and more willing to listen to others. So, my examiner could ask me questions that are mentioned here or anything out of their experience. the abnormal traits, trusting, detached. So, you'll be thinking why does a lot of questions comes from this personality questionnaire? So, basically the examiner want to see when you'll be in cockpit how good of team worker you are and would you be taking responsibilities, your motivations, your ability to learn, and how do you be interacting with other people. So, all these factors are mentioned in this report, and according to this, the examiner is going to analyze you. And moving further, the untrusting, detached, antisocial, arrogant, isolated, over-reliant, power distance, uncertainty. So, these all comes in the culture aspect. And after the culture, they would have analyzed that how's your work-life balance, what is the role of individualism in you, and then the safety culture. And in the safety culture, they would analyze that how good are you at your attitude. Would you resign when the difficulty comes? Are you a very high risk-taker? What kind of attitude you have? If you have too much of macho attitude, which is linked to overconfidence and high risk, then you are at really big trouble because you don't want to take too much risks that are not required in the cockpit. Then anti-authority, the impulsivity, the invulnerability, &gt;&gt; and of course your motivations. So, these all include &gt;&gt; [music] &gt;&gt; from your personality test. So, most of your exam would be based upon it that the interviewer is going to see. And then the self-reported anxiety. I had some major concerns in it. There could be some question that could be asked from it, but nothing very much major concerning. Moving further from your personality test, now let's look into the few other exams that you have to give in your adapt. So, first of all, math. I did pretty well in my math, and for you, I'll tell you one more very important tip is that don't over-prepare for it. I studied till 12th all the math books, and trust me, the questions are pretty very simple. Like, it's almost conversions, simple multiplication, maths, division, so you don't have to worry about it at all. And then the physics, same till your 10th class, speed, distance, time, force, pressure, and then the cognitive reasoning. And numericals, pretty well, score is all right. And working memory, special rotation. So, I did pretty well in all of the cognitive reasoning. English, also I did pretty decent from vocabulary, structure, comprehension. So, you don't have to prepare over for any of these. These are all very basic exams that you don't need too much preparation for it. And then is your FAST exam. the FAST exam consists of how fast you react to certain tasks that are given to you. So, this would be including your FAST physical, your FAST cognitive, special awareness, &gt;&gt; and your balance, physical coordination, and dexterity, your cognitive capability, reasoning, and processing speed, and display through auditory and visual channels that how specially aware you are. So, for this, a very good tip I would give you that the tasks you have to perform twice. First, you would be learning how to do it, and the second time is again you have to perform the same task. So, the thing is that if you perform very well in your first attempt, your progress of learning would be very less in your second attempt. So, just have very minimal inputs or very minimal performance in your first task performance, and then when it's your second task, do a very good improvement. So, for me, you could see that in my first attempt, I did pretty decent. I did really well in it, so my second attempt performance went down. And same for all the other in my first cognitive, I did not perform well in the first and in the second, I did very good. Same for the situational awareness, it's the same. And you could see my cognitive and situational analysis report here. And it tells that candidate shows little evidence of learning across the cognitive and physical demand of the task. So, I was telling you, you don't have to really give your 100% in your first attempt. Save it for the next attempt. And the flight test, so this is basically you'll be having a yoke or a side stick or a joystick and you'll be having rudder pedals and you have to fly aircraft from one position to other and in between there would be various call, ATC would be calling you or you have to memorize, you'll have to go either to the lake or you have to go to the town &gt;&gt; and after all your exam, there would be a certain exam that would be asking you whatever was happening in the flight. &gt;&gt; So, first you'll be doing flight. In flight, there would be various calls that you have to remember and after flight, there would be a MCQ test that you have to tell that you remembered a lot of things that happened in your flight simulator. So, this is my physical dexterity and how well I maintained the altitude and speed. And it tells that I went from position A to position B and it would be telling me in the call, like the ATC would be calling me and telling me that I have to go next to the wind farm and then to the airfield, then to the power station. And I have to remember all these things. And [snorts] also maintaining the heading and this would be all my performance that would be reflected. these are all the things that are noted by the system about my pitch, roll or way point adherence &gt;&gt; and nothing much detail that you have to give here. And again, if there are two attempts, first has to be decent, the second one has to be best performing. And for the final coordination and control, this was the worst performance that I had out of all the exams. So basically there would be a table, above that there would be a ball and you have to balance the ball with your side stick and your rudder pedals and you have to maintain it on the table. And if the ball falls, then again it would be coming on the table and you have to try to balance it. So I did pretty decent in my first attempt and second I improved. So if you could see that in my first attempt, I had [music] score of only two and then my learning improved till 10. So then I remembered that first I have to like perform normal and then I have to perform really well. So as for me, I found that you don't have to prepare a lot for this exam. This all exam is about how well you adapt and learn. So I did not really prepare too much for it because it want to see how good you're adapt think to the changes and the challenges that are going to happen. So this was all related to my report and now I'm going to tell you how to prepare and what are the resources that you have to refer in order to prepare really well for your exam. So there are online resources that could help you to really perform and prepare well for this examination. Now the question comes how to prepare really well for this exam. So as you could see on the Symbiotic website, if you go to the practice graded pilot aptitude test you could see that all the uh and the task that I've shown you are given here. So, you could take any of these bundles like cadet inside bundle, the math, physics, progressive test. Everything is included here from all the tasks that I have shown you in my result. But, the issue with it is that this is pretty expensive and you could see that this would cost you around somewhere 10 to 15,000 or more. So, in order to get something that will be in your budget and will really help you out with this test, I'm going to recommend you Latest Pilot. So, when I was preparing for my Adapt examination, I totally prepared everything from the Latest Pilot itself. as soon as you will go to their website, just go to the aptitude test and it will show you various tests that the pilot takes in different part of the world. And I would tell you that go for the cadet aptitude preparation test. So, this would include everything that you need to be prepared for. So, this will include all the topics that you need to be prepared for. So, the cadet aptitude test preparation and you could see there's math, verbal reasoning, physics test, nonverbal reasoning, there is number series, personality test, which is very important, English word test, aviation knowledge test, red dot test, which is your hand eye coordination or could also be your fastest, and simulator, advanced flight simulator, and working memory. So, [snorts] these are the requirements that you need to have. And talking about how much it would cost you, so this is around 70 US dollars, which would be around 7 to 8,000 or at max 6,000 if you will get a deal. And if you see that if you go to any of the institute for preparation, they would charge you around 40 to 60,000. But, if you can get one of these, I'll tell you that your preparation would be really sound, and you don't have to worry about anything after that. And also this, if you don't want to purchase this software, then I would totally recommend you that you can YouTube any of the test that are mentioned in my test report, and you could see couple of YouTube videos that would give you a better understanding of how to approach this examination. So, one more question that people ask is that how much does it cost for Indigo Cadet Pilot Program Adapt examination? That is with Chimes. For me, it was 30,000 rupees. Another question people ask is that what happens that when you fail in your Adapt exam? Yes, people do fail in their Adapt exam, but it's not like you'll be terminated from the program itself. So, what will happen is that if you have not performed very well in your personality test, then you'll be recommended to a doctor that has qualification in psychology, and he'll be taking further investigation with you, and further giving the test reports to the [music] Chimes or any organization you are with. And if you clear that, there is no problem with it. Even if you fail your Adapt exam, this is not the end of it. There would be a cooling period. Earlier, it was for 6 months. Now, it is for 3 months. You could reapply for the Adapt exam after 3 months of time. So, I guess this video was really helpful for you, and it covered all the aspects that needed to be covered in order to understand the exam, the cost related to it, and [music] the challenges that you might face. If still you have any doubt, feel free to comment that in the comment section down below, and I'll see you in the next video. Thank you.